okay in this video I'll be stripping a
deck here this is a six year old prep
pressure treat treat treated deck and it
had it's been staying to twice with a
latex stain and as you can see it has
failed there's a bunch of bare areas and
the paint's there has started to lift
and peel
there's mold and mildew over here in the
corner there's a lot of mold and mildew
and areas that are black now from where
like a plant was I can't really say why
this coating did fail there's a number
of about reasons why wood isn't exactly
the best type of material to have enough
horizontal surface outdoors but if you
can't afford VXR or the exact and this
is the way to go or if like if we've had
a bad winter and there's a lot of snow
and ice that has sat on top of it it
could have pulled up the coating or
shovels that gets worn across it and a
lot of times when the wood is new
there's this stuff called a mill plays
that's on brand new wood and unless you
get rid of that the sealer or the paint
that you try to put on top of it won't
soak into the surface it merely sits on
on the surface and it can never do its
job and and it never gets into the wood
and it's so easily Lyria moves so this
is definitely a technique that you may
want to go with if you're unhappy with
the surface or the looks of your deck
because if you just paint directly right
over this then there's all the other
areas that are going to continue to fail
in the future that will lift up
underneath your earth right new coating
so
best thing you do is just to get rid of
as much of it as possible and the tools
and materials that I'm using for with
the job were right over here first we're
gonna use the stain remover it has a
acid in it and what it does is it you
put it on and you let it sit on the
surface for 15 - o'clock
30 minutes and what that does is it
softens up the old coal coating so that
you can just either take it off with a
brush I'm going to use the pressure
washer but again it's a it's very
powerful and it has a acid in it and
then after that we're gonna use the
woods right nerve and that's a chemical
that is used directly after the early
over and what that does is it brightens
the wood back up because your remover
does have a acid in it and it's what
that does is it neutralizes that acid
and returns the wood to the bright color
and not the great color and the wood
brightener is also good for texts that
have grayed out from like from like a UV
rays from lava Sun and we want to use
the others right there another then I
have my pressure washer here and you
want to stay like 9 inches away I have
my yellow narrow tip on it and once
again when you use the UH pressure
washer you see how you really want to
know what you're doing you have to move
in in a fast sweep so that this will
soften up the yes surface of the wood
and it actually it raises the drains a
little bit so what you have to do
afterwards after it dries his sand it
down but this is definitely the best way
to remove
holding the fastest and then after I'm
going to give the deck to two to three
days to dry and I'm going to use my to
sent my to Sanders hair this is a
multi-purpose sander it's great to get
into corners or crevices or in between
the spindles it has a rectangular shape
there and then I have my random four bit
here this is unlike a random orbit it
has it has two paths here one on the
outside one on the inside there's a
space in between here and they oscillate
independent of one another therefore it
cancels out the the vibrations caused by
each of the disks which in turn saves or
elbow saves your elbow a lot of the
vibrations so so once again this is the
best method if you're unhappy with the
appearance of your deck and you really
just want to get a lot of the old
coating up and off okay we're gonna
start first by testing out you have
stripper on a piece of wood here so
we'll put it on and then we'll let this
sit for fifteen to thirty minutes and
then come back and before we start to uh
spray down the up chemicals that we want
to do is wet the others
yes surrounding flowers or plants that
you have around and yes siding too
because remember the acid yeah yeah
stripper does have a acid in it so you
definitely want to keep stuff wet and it
also helps to do it on a rainy day light
like today where everything is already
wet so that definitely helps so we'll
just start off by a wedding gown we have
flowers
and siding
you